---
title:  "백두산도중"
search: true
categories: 
  - post
tags:
  - 독후감
last_modified_at: 2020-05-21T08:06:00-05:00
---

Shin Chaeho (申采浩, 신채호, 1880-1936) was a Korean independence activist and a very controversial but influential historian. He was of the Goryeong Shin Clan (高靈申氏, 고령신씨); his pen name (號, 호) was Danjae (丹齋, 단재). In 1897, he entered to study Sungkyunkwan (成均館, 성균관). In 1905, he graduated with a doctorate from Sungkyunkwan was appointed as a teacher that year, but resigned in protest of the Japanese Protectorate Treaty of 1905 (乙巳條約, 을사조약). He joined the editorial boards of the Capital Gazette (皇城新聞, 황성신문, Hwangseong Shinmun) and the Korean Daily Newspaper (大韓每日申報, 대한매일신보, Daehan Maeil Shinbo) to further the cause of the Patriotic Enlightenment Movement (愛國啓夢運動, 애국계몽운동). In 1910, in response to the Japanese annexation of Korea, Shin Chaeho emigrated to China and joined various Korean independence movements. During this time, he wrote extensively on Korean history and nationalism, including the concept of the Korean race (韓民族, 한민족), rejection of China-centered view, which he called "Sadaejueui" (事大主義, 사대주의), and irredentist claims over Manchuria. He also was an anarchist and part of an organization called the Eastern Anarchist Union (東方無政府主義聯盟, 동방무정부주의연맹). In 1928, Shin Chaeho was arrested in Jilong (基隆, 기륭, Giryung) in modern day Taiwan for having forged papers while working to support the anarchist organization. He died of a stroke while in jail in 1936. Despite his opinions on China in Korea's history, he had no problems with using Hanja, as most of his works were in mixed script and he wrote a number of Classical Chinese poetry, including the following composed presumably around 1920.